---
title: "About me"
layout: single
sitemap: true
permalink: /about/
---

My story, like everyone else's, begins with a woman. This woman believed in two truths: First, that this world desperately needs more love and compassion. Second, that I had the ability to do something about it.  Through all of the changes of my life, those two things have remained true and have permeated every aspect of my life, even my name.

My mom tells me, "Shortly after the beginning of my 2nd trimester I was in church one Sunday morning and the pastor said something about being a victorious Christian. I remember feeling a bit defeated & thinking that I would never be a victorious Christian and immediately praying & asking God that He would allow my baby to grow up to live a victorious Christian life. And then the name Victoria popped into my head & I knew that was it." We also have a tradition of carrying on the names of women in our family. As she made her way through the list of names of aunts, mothers, grandmothers, etc., she found the name "Elizabeth". "Then when I learned that Elizabeth meant oath of God it seemed perfect! And that's how you got the name "Victory as Promised  by God"." Now, I can't prove it, but I'm fairly certain I heard this story for the first time in utero. I've definitely known the meaning of my name for as long as I can remember. In fact, I remember proudly explaining it to everyone who thought my mom had a weird thing about royalty, with the dual queen thing, starting in Kindergarten. The knowledge that before you were even born someone believed you would live a victorious life can have a profound effect on a child. With this inspiration and the influence of the other gracious, faithful, generous, thoughtful, and most importantly, fierce women in my life I have become Victoria Lee. I don't always feel victorious and I certainly have my share of regrets. Life takes practice, and faith takes strength, no matter how much your mom believes in you. Today I fight everyday to do the work that I believe God has put before me, to push myself to be better while maintaining grace with myself and others.

In real life, I work for quality pre-primary education for the underserved, currently as a literacy and art enrichment coordinator at a preschool in East Harlem. I'm in the final year of earning my M.A. in International Education Development with a focus on teacher education in pre-primary settings in rural China.

Oh ya, and I have a few chronic illnesses, at the moment that includes Rheumatoid Disease, Raynaud's Syndrome, and Irritable Bowel Syndrome. While my pharmaceutical treatment for these things seems to constantly fluctuate, I've also decided to take things into my own hands and try to find some healing in nutrition. As a skeptical person, this has been an interesting process, but I'll try anything to fight this disease. 

That's me, a teacher trapped in a sick body, trying to live by faith instead of leaning on my own strength. My goal for this blog: to help me organize my life with a focus on the things that matter most to me, Faith, Health, Food, and my loved ones, while sharing an honest presentation of the things I've worked hard for, so maybe others paths can be just a bit easier.  
